_pages/cfp.md, before:

---
title: "IWPT 2025 Call for Papers"
layout: plain 
excerpt: "IWPT 2025 Call for Papers"
sitemap: false
permalink: /cfp
---

### IWPT 2025: The 18th International Conference on Parsing Technologies
SyntaxFest 2025, Ljubljana, August 26–29

<https://www.sigparse.org/iwpt2025>

&nbsp;

### CALL FOR PAPERS

The ACL Special Interest Group on Natural Language Parsing (SIGPARSE)
invites paper submissions to its biennial conference on parsing
technologies.  IWPT 2025 will be the 18th conference in a series that
started in 1989.  The conference will be held as one of the events in
SyntaxFest 2025 in Ljubljana, August 26–29.

The paper submission deadline for IWPT 2025 is April 15, 2025.

&nbsp;

#### INVITED TALK

+ Isabel Papadimitriou (Kempner Institute, Harvard)

&nbsp;

#### TOPICS

IWPT addresses all aspects of structural analysis of natural language,
including but not limited to:

+ Parsing of natural language (phonological, morphological, syntactic,
  semantic, discourse, etc.)
+ Formal models and algorithms for recognition, parsing and
  transduction
+ Machine learning techniques for syntax and parsing
+ Complexity of languages, models and algorithms
+ Learning of recursive structure (linguistic/latent)
+ Parsing in machine translation (synchronous parsing; alignment by
  parsing; translation by parsing, etc.)
+ Cognitive models of language processing
+ Multilingual and multimodal perspectives on syntax and parsing
+ Domain and genre adaptation, portability and robustness of parsing
  systems
+ Practical applications of parsing technology
+ Parser evaluation (across languages and frameworks)
+ Neural Network Models for linguistic structure predictions
+ Combining distributional and symbolic signals for linguistic
  structure prediction
+ Multilingual and Universal Parsing, Parsing typologically different
  languages
+ Parsing low-resource languages and cross-lingual or domain transfer
+ Unblackboxing deep learning models to probe their level of linguistic
  analysis
+ Integrating morphology via character-based models, subword
  embeddings, and beyond

&nbsp;


#### SCHEDULE

+ April 15, 2025: Paper submission deadline
+ June 2, 2025: Notification of acceptance
+ June 16, 2025: Camera-Ready versions due
+ August 26-29, 2025: Conference (part of SyntaxFest)

All deadlines are 11.59 pm UTC -12h (“anywhere on Earth”).

&nbsp;

#### SUBMISSIONS

Papers must be submitted digitally in PDF format via the online conference
system:

<https://openreview.net/group?id=SyntaxFest/2025>

When submitting, authors will be asked to indicate which workshops they wish
their paper to be considered for and to specify whether their submission
is archival or non-archival.

All submissions should follow the two-column ACL style guidelines. We strongly recommend the use of the LaTeX style files, OpenDocument, or Microsoft Word templates created for ACL: https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files. All papers must be anonymous, i.e., not reveal author(s) on the title page or through self-references. So, e.g., “We previously showed (Smith, 2020) …”, should be avoided. Instead, use citations such as “Smith (2020) previously showed …”.

Paper submissions that violate either of these requirements will be
returned without review.

Paper submissions can be made in two distinct tracks:

+ regular papers on substantial, original, and unpublished research,
  including empirical evaluation results, where appropriate; and
+ short papers on smaller, focused contributions, work in progress,
  negative results, or opinion pieces.

The page limits for submissions are: up to eight pages of content for
regular papers, and up to four pages of content for short papers; any
additional number of pages can be used for bibliographic references.

Papers accepted for presentation at the conference will be included in
the IWPT 2025 proceedings, which will be published by the ACL and
included in the ACL Anthology.

&nbsp;

#### IWPT Chairs

+ [Stephan Oepen](https://www.mn.uio.no/ifi/english/people/aca/oe/)
+ [Kenji Sagae](https://compling.ucdavis.edu/sagae)

Commit message:

Update cfp.md with extended deadline

_pages/cfp.md, after:

---
title: "IWPT 2025 Call for Papers"
layout: plain 
excerpt: "IWPT 2025 Call for Papers"
sitemap: false
permalink: /cfp
---

### IWPT 2025: The 18th International Conference on Parsing Technologies
**<span style="color:red">DEADLINE EXTENDED</span>** 
SyntaxFest 2025, Ljubljana, August 26–29

<https://www.sigparse.org/iwpt2025>

&nbsp;

### CALL FOR PAPERS

The ACL Special Interest Group on Natural Language Parsing (SIGPARSE)
invites paper submissions to its biennial conference on parsing
technologies.  IWPT 2025 will be the 18th conference in a series that
started in 1989.  The conference will be held as one of the events in
SyntaxFest 2025 in Ljubljana, August 26–29.

~~The paper submission deadline for IWPT 2025 is April 15, 2025.~~  
**<span style="color:red">The paper submission deadline for IWPT 2025 has been extended to April 22, 2025 (anywhere on Earth).</span>**

&nbsp;

#### INVITED TALK

+ Isabel Papadimitriou (Kempner Institute, Harvard)

&nbsp;

#### TOPICS

IWPT addresses all aspects of structural analysis of natural language,
including but not limited to:

+ Parsing of natural language (phonological, morphological, syntactic,
  semantic, discourse, etc.)
+ Formal models and algorithms for recognition, parsing and
  transduction
+ Machine learning techniques for syntax and parsing
+ Complexity of languages, models and algorithms
+ Learning of recursive structure (linguistic/latent)
+ Parsing in machine translation (synchronous parsing; alignment by
  parsing; translation by parsing, etc.)
+ Cognitive models of language processing
+ Multilingual and multimodal perspectives on syntax and parsing
+ Domain and genre adaptation, portability and robustness of parsing
  systems
+ Practical applications of parsing technology
+ Parser evaluation (across languages and frameworks)
+ Neural Network Models for linguistic structure predictions
+ Combining distributional and symbolic signals for linguistic
  structure prediction
+ Multilingual and Universal Parsing, Parsing typologically different
  languages
+ Parsing low-resource languages and cross-lingual or domain transfer
+ Unblackboxing deep learning models to probe their level of linguistic
  analysis
+ Integrating morphology via character-based models, subword
  embeddings, and beyond

&nbsp;


#### SCHEDULE

+ ~~April 15, 2025: Paper submission deadline~~  
+ **<span style="color:red">April 22, 2025: Paper submission deadline (extended)</span>**  
+ June 2, 2025: Notification of acceptance
+ June 16, 2025: Camera-Ready versions due
+ August 26-29, 2025: Conference (part of SyntaxFest)

All deadlines are 11.59 pm UTC -12h (“anywhere on Earth”).

&nbsp;

#### SUBMISSIONS

Papers must be submitted digitally in PDF format via the online conference
system:

<https://openreview.net/group?id=SyntaxFest/2025>

When submitting, authors will be asked to indicate which workshops they wish
their paper to be considered for and to specify whether their submission
is archival or non-archival.

All submissions should follow the two-column ACL style guidelines. We strongly recommend the use of the LaTeX style files, OpenDocument, or Microsoft Word templates created for ACL: https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files. All papers must be anonymous, i.e., not reveal author(s) on the title page or through self-references. So, e.g., “We previously showed (Smith, 2020) …”, should be avoided. Instead, use citations such as “Smith (2020) previously showed …”.

Paper submissions that violate either of these requirements will be
returned without review.

Paper submissions can be made in two distinct tracks:

+ regular papers on substantial, original, and unpublished research,
  including empirical evaluation results, where appropriate; and
+ short papers on smaller, focused contributions, work in progress,
  negative results, or opinion pieces.

The page limits for submissions are: up to eight pages of content for
regular papers, and up to four pages of content for short papers; any
additional number of pages can be used for bibliographic references.

Papers accepted for presentation at the conference will be included in
the IWPT 2025 proceedings, which will be published by the ACL and
included in the ACL Anthology.

&nbsp;

#### IWPT Chairs

+ [Stephan Oepen](https://www.mn.uio.no/ifi/english/people/aca/oe/)
+ [Kenji Sagae](https://compling.ucdavis.edu/sagae)
